[ADD] inventory: locations dashboard (#9458)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/warehouses_storage/reporting/locations.rst

===================
Locations dashboard
===================

.. |down| replace:: :icon:`fa-caret-down` :guilabel:`(caret down)`

> The *Locations* dashboard is the go-to place to view on-hand storage locations for company products.

Author: I like the idea of removing marketing language from docs. (:

> The *Locations* dashboard is the go-to place to view on-hand storage locations for company products.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the *Locations* dashboard to view on-hand storage locations for company products.
```

> Use this report to see where stock is stored, identify stranded inventory, or view past inventory to

Author: yes , i believe it's an industry term!
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/3d3ab014-5a52-4c18-891d-c1a07c039b09)

see product locations on specific dates.

.. note::
   The *Reporting* menu in *Inventory* is only accessible to users with :doc:`admin access
   <../../../../general/users/access_rights>`.

> To access the locations report, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Reporting --> Locations`.

Author: Amazing catch, Lara!! thank you!!!!

> To access the locations report, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Reporting --> Locations`.

Author: ```suggestion
TODO: add setup instructions to enable storage locations in Odoo!!
To access the locations report, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Reporting --> Locations`.
```

- :guilabel:`Reserved Quantity`: on-hand quantity reserved for operations such as pickings, delivery
  orders, or manufacturings.
- :guilabel:`Unit`: the unit of measure of the product.

.. tip::
   View what the product is reserved for, by clicking the :icon:`fa-history` :guilabel:`History`
   button next to the product.

   On the :guilabel:`Moves History` page, remove the :guilabel:`Done` filter. Then, click the |down|
   icon to reveal filter options, and select the :guilabel:`To Do` filter.

   .. image:: locations/reserved-products.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Display *Moves History* page of to-do deliveries that reserved the product.

Click the buttons to the right of each row item to access additional information:

- :icon:`fa-history` :guilabel:`History`: access the stock move history of the product, displaying
  information about the quantity and description of why the product was moved from one location to
  another.
- :icon:`fa-refresh` :guilabel:`Replenishment`: access the :doc:`reordering rules
  <../../product_management/product_replenishment/reordering_rules>` page to replenish products at
  the specific location.

> Click the the :guilabel:`New` button to make an inventory adjustment to record quantities of a

Author: ```suggestion
TODO: add ref link to count_products doc
Click the the :guilabel:`New` button to make an inventory adjustment to record quantities of a
```

Stranded inventory report
-------------------------

Businesses using multi-step flows in *Inventory* or *Manufacturing* may encounter stranded items.
Use this report to periodically check transfer locations (e.g. *WH/Input*, *WH/Pre-Processing*) to
ensure items are moved to their intended storage locations and accurately recorded in the database.

To get a list of items that might be sitting idly in storage, follow these steps:

#. Go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Reporting --> Locations`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, begin typing the name of the a location where products are
   intended to be moved somewhere else, such as `WH/Input`, `WH/Packing`.
#. Select the :guilabel:`Search Location for:` [location name] option.

   .. image:: locations/search-input-location.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Show search result for the location.

The report now displays a list of products at the transit location.

.. example::
   Searching `Input` in :guilabel:`Location` shows a list of products at the *Wh/Input* location.

   The list shows `500` quantities of `Chicken`, which is alarming if not refrigerated soon after

>    reception. The stranded inventory report helps identify items idling in non-storage locations.

Author: Thank you for helping me think of irl use cases. Maybe the chicken wasn't the best example of stranded inventory. I currently don't have other ideas, though...

<inventory/warehouse_storage/stranded>`, or view past inventory to see product locations on specific
dates.

.. note::
   The *Reporting* menu in *Inventory* is only accessible to users with :doc:`admin access
   <../../../../general/users/access_rights>`.

To access the locations report, the *Storage Locations* feature must be enabled. To do that, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`. In the :guilabel:`Warehouse` section,
tick the checkbox for :guilabel:`Storage Locations`. Then, access the locations dashboard at
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Reporting --> Locations`.

.. _inventory/warehouses_storage/locations-report:

Navigate the locations dashboard
================================

By default, the :guilabel:`Locations` dashboard that lists all on-hand products in stock, along with
the following information:

- :guilabel:`Location`: current storage location. If a product is stored at `Shelf 1` and `Shelf 2`,
  the product is listed twice, showing quantities at each location.
- :guilabel:`Package`: the package product is stored in, if any.
- :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`: if the product has a lot or serial number, it is specified here.

> - :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`: current quantity of products. Click the :icon:`fa-pencil`

Author: Just checked a runbot, and I think the Owner column was a custom column created by someone!  I didn't see it in mine. 

![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/36b50c4e-6bf3-4b55-8b1d-8786bbcdddb9)

  another.
- :icon:`fa-refresh` :guilabel:`Replenishment`: access the :doc:`reordering rules
  <../../product_management/product_replenishment/reordering_rules>` page to replenish products at
  the specific location.

Click the the :guilabel:`New` button to make an :doc:`inventory adjustment
<../inventory_management/count_products>` to record quantities of a certain product at a specific
:guilabel:`Location`.

To view products, quantities, and their locations for a specified date, click the
:guilabel:`Inventory At Date` button. Select a date and time in the :guilabel:`Inventory at Date`
field, and then click :guilabel:`Confirm`.

Generate reports
================

After learning how to :ref:`navigate the locations dashboard
<inventory/warehouses_storage/locations-report>`, it can be used to create and share different
reports.

A few common reports that can be created using the :guilabel:`Locations` dashboard are detailed
below.

Dead stock report
-----------------

To get list of expired items, also referred to as *dead stock*, follow these steps:

#. Go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Reporting --> Locations`.

> #. Then, click the |down| icon in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to reveal a drop-down list of

Author: Great point about the internal locations filter! adding that in

   :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By`, and :guilabel:`Favorite` options.

> #. Choose the :guilabel:`Expiration Alerts` option under the :guilabel:`Filters` section.

Author: ```suggestion
#. Enable the :guilabel:`Internal Locations` and :guilabel:`Expiration Alerts` option under the :guilabel:`Filters` section.
```

#. In the :guilabel:`Search...` bar, begin typing the name of the location where products are
   intended to be moved to, such as `WH/Input`,  or `WH/Packing`.
#. Select the :guilabel:`Search Location for:` [location name] option.

   .. image:: locations/search-input-location.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Show search result for the location.

The report now displays a list of products at the transit location.

.. example::
   Searching `Input` in :guilabel:`Location` shows a list of products at the *Wh/Input* location.

   The list shows `500` quantities of `Chicken`, which is alarming if not refrigerated soon after
   reception. The stranded inventory report helps identify items idling in non-storage locations.

   .. image:: locations/stranded-inventory.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Show items stored at a specific location.

Inventory discrepancy report
----------------------------

To generate a report of items that have been moved since the last :doc:`inventory audit
<../inventory_management/cycle_counts>`, follow these steps:

#. Go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Reporting --> Locations`.

> #. Then, click the |down| icon in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar to reveal a drop-down list of

Author: thank you for the suggestion, it's a really good one!

   :guilabel:`Filters`, :guilabel:`Group By`, and :guilabel:`Favorite` options.

> #. Choose the :guilabel:`Conflicts` option from the :guilabel:`Filters` section.

Author: ```suggestion
#. Enable the :guilabel:`Internal Locations` and :guilabel:`Conflicts` option from the :guilabel:`Filters` section.
```
